# Which requirement be consider when choosing Database ?
- In modern technologies, horizontal scaling is extremely popular. That why we will run our instance in multiple nodes (node is a separated machine), and we need to consider synchronization data between multiple instances.
- We have several architecture such as: leader-follower, master-less, master-replicas

## CAP theorem
- **Consistency**

    Consistency means that all clients see the same data at the same time, no matter which node they connect to. For this to happen, whenever data is written to one node, it must be instantly forwarded or replicated to all the other nodes in the system before the write is deemed ‘successful.’
    <br>
    - For instance, DB have one master node and 3 replicas nodes, when write command arrive at master, it will be propagated into replicas, in this point, our system could be crash or restarted, or when multiple write could lead to data race condition (is mentioned in slide Distributed lock Redis). From now, our data could be harmful and we need mechanism to solve them.

- **Availability**

    Availability means that any client making a request for data gets a response, even if one or more nodes are down. Another way to state this—all working nodes in the distributed system return a valid response for any request, without exception.
    <br>
    - For intance, In simple case, we have 1 DB or Redis node, and when this node is down, my system will have downtime. That why we need multiple instances (horizontal scaling) to achieve Availability characteristic 

- **Partition tolerance**

    A partition is a communications break within a distributed system—a lost or temporarily delayed connection between two nodes. Partition tolerance means that the cluster must continue to work despite any number of communication breakdowns between nodes in the system.
    <br>
    - <ins>Partition</ins> mean there are conflict between data when in our system, e.g. concurrently write into our DB or our master Database crashed before synchronize data into its replicas.
    <br>
    - Suppose we have 2 Leader instance SQL database, 2 users concurrently write into 2 leaders with the same document, then 2 leaders will replicate data into each other, now we have conflict data (<ins>paper 171, Handle write conflict, Designing data intensive application book</ins>)


# Analyze CAP theorem in specific Database
Some database only satisfy 2 out of 3 property of CAP theorem

- **CP database**: A CP database <ins>delivers consistency and partition tolerance</ins> at the expense of availability. When a partition occurs between any two nodes, the system has to shut down the non-consistent node (i.e., make it unavailable) until the partition is resolved.    

- **AP database**: An AP database delivers <ins>availability and partition tolerance</ins> at the expense of consistency. When a partition occurs, all nodes remain available but those at the wrong end of a partition might return an older version of data than others. (When the partition is resolved, the AP databases typically resync the nodes to repair all inconsistencies in the system.)

- **CA database**: A CA database delivers <ins>consistency and availability</ins> across all nodes. It can’t do this if there is a partition between any two nodes in the system, however, and therefore can’t deliver fault tolerance.

## MongoDB and CAP theorem
- Mongodb is **CP database**, frequently used for big data and real-time applications but compromising on availability

- Mongodb is a single-master system. Only one primary node receives all write operations, all other nodes are secondary that replicate primary node log
- When primary node is down, its replica is elected as master.
- Why not satisfy availability? Because of single-master
- Because of single master, so it won't suffered conflict between concurrent write (this case mentioned above) into multiple leaders like SQL --> ensure <ins>partition tolerance</ins>, which is a problem with DB like Postgresql, 

## Postgresql and CAP theorem
- Postgresql is CA database - and in distributed system


- 


# References
- Read Part II. Distributed data, chapter 5 book Data intensive Applications to get better understand about how Design Database
