---
tags: system
---

## Reference
[System Design Interview Question Handbook – Concepts You Should Know](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/systems-design-for-interviews/?fbclid=IwAR1pdn4DQu-dbUCEjTvvs9ijDw0w2FBdi6aSyZaYMCKxKIZqEWLlkGXxMVk_aem_AfR2FF60Dd4tT8pf56m1HVevFqXemLXfU4Ae4Nv0JVkycE2AcEt7dapPjGT7Op0OurE#section-3-system-availability)

## Guidelines
1. Network: IP, TCP, HTTP
	- [[Protocol- IP, TCP, HTTP]]
2. Storage, Latency and Throughput
3. Availability
4. Caching
	- [[Caching]]
5. Proxies
6. Load balancing
7. Consistent hashing
8. Databases
9. Polling, streaming, sockets
10. Endpoint protection 
11. Message & pub-sub
12. Smaller essential.

- **Database**: Store data so that they or another apps can find it again later
- **Cache**: Remember the result of an expensive operation to speed up reads
- **Index**: Allow users to search data by keywords or filters it in various way
- **Stream processing**: Send a message to another process to be handled asynchronously
- **Batch processing**: periodically crunch a large amount of accumulated data.


Benefits - Key point of Microservice:
- Continuous development
- Isolation of concerns
- Service level scalability
- Parallel development


"high-performance" can vary by domain and isn't just about speed. Features of High-Performance Applications include:
- High Throughput
- Data Intensive
- Real Time
- Low Latency
- Event Driven
- Stream Processing



## Non-functional System
### 1. **Availability**
> **Availability** measures the percentage of time a system accepts requests and responds to clients.


### 2. **Reliability**
> -> Refers to both **time-to-repair** and **time-to-failure**
> **Reliability** measures how well a system performs its intended operations (functional requirements). We use averages for that (Mean Time to Failure, Mean Time to Repair, etc.)

### 3. **Scalability**
> **Scalability** is the ability of a system to handle an increasing amount of workload without compromising performance
> 	- Vertical - scale up
> 	- Horizontal - scale out

The workload can be of different types, including the following:
- **Request workload**: This is the number of requests served by the system.
- **Data/storage workload**: This is the amount of data stored by the system.

### 4. **Maintainability**
> -> Refer to **time-to-repair**
> Maintainability, M, is the probability that the service will restore its functions within a specified time of fault occurrence. M measures how conveniently and swiftly the service regains its normal operating conditions.

### 5. **Fault tolerance**
> Fault tolerance refers to a system’s ability to execute persistently even if one or more of its components fail

**Techniques:**
- Replication
- Checkpointing